THE Malibu apartment was known for its natural spotlights. It had
       been built with ninety-two plate-glass windows, strategically located for eastern, western, and overhead exposure so that no matter
where you were, the sun placed you center stage. Alex stood in front of
a wall of glass, beautifully backlit, running his thumb over the edge of
an oval inlaid maple box. “You got this in Lyons, I think,” he said to
Cassie. She was sitting in a love seat the color of a blush, and when he
sank to the ﬂoor in front of her, grasping her hand, she couldn’t help
but gasp. It was like having the character spring off the movie screen,
suddenly ﬂesh and blood.
    It was an odd feeling, seeing a stranger a few feet in front of you and
knowing that you had shared his bowl of cereal, warmed your feet
against his calves, traded him your whispers in a soft, mussed bed.
Cassie wished she could throw herself into the charade, but she could
not. Alex was the actor, not her, and she was painfully aware of the
shifting zone that moved with her, blue and magnetic, forcing a distance between them even when they touched.
    Alex sighed. “You’re not going to start acting like I’m larger than
life, are you?” he said. “You never did before.”
    Cassie gave him a half-smile. She had been quiet on purpose, ﬁguring
the less she said, the less of a fool she’d make of herself. “This takes a
little getting used to,” she said. She glanced at the white alençon curtains, the pickled-wood coffee table, the pink marble sink of the wet
bar.
    Alex leaned close to brush a kiss against her forehead, and she
couldn’t help it, she stiffened. Since Alex had claimed her at the station,

he hadn’t hesitated to touch her. It was ridiculous, really, to feel as
skittish as she would on a blind date, since Alex had said they’d been
married for three whole years. Still, she couldn’t seem to see herself in
the day-to-day routine of a marriage. Instead her mind kept ﬂashing
through images she knew she’d been fed by the media: Alex Rivers at
a black-tie beneﬁt for AIDS research, Alex Rivers accepting a Golden
Globe award, Alex Rivers juggling coconuts during a break on the set
of Robinson Crusoe.
    Suddenly he stood up, bathed in sunlight, and Cassie lost track of
her thoughts. She did not remember Alex, she did not feel comfortable
around him, but she was fascinated by him. The silver shine of his eyes,
the proud line of his jaw, the muscles corded in his neck, all called to
her. She studied him as she would Michelangelo’s David: ﬂuid, beau-
tiful, but far too steeped in his own perfection to be singled out for her.
    “It’s a good thing we came here,” Alex said. “If you’re overwhelmed
by the apartment, I can’t imagine what you’d think of the house.”
    On the way to the Malibu Colony, Alex had tried to jar Cassie’s
memory with descriptions of their three homes: the house in Bel-Air,
the apartment in Malibu, and the ranch just outside of Aspen, Colorado.
He said that they spent most of their time at the house, but that Cassie
had always preferred the apartment because when they were married
she’d redecorated it.
    “What’s it like?” she had pressed, eager for some detail that would
shake free her past.
    Alex had just shrugged. “It’s little,” he said.
    But when the Range Rover pulled up to the towering whitewashed
building, Cassie had stared at the rounded edges, the princess’s turrets,
the tiers and tiers. The last thing it was was little. “It looks like a castle,”
she had breathed, and Alex had thrown his arms around her. “That’s
what you said the ﬁrst time you saw it,” he’d said.
    “Cassie?” She jumped now at the sound of her name. She hadn’t even
heard the telephone ring, but Alex was holding the receiver, mouthpiece
covered. “Herb says he won’t sleep until he sees that you’re all right.”
He took a step closer to her and laid his palm against her cheek, his
eyes darkening. “Well, I don’t give a damn,” he said. “You’ve got to
rest.”
    He lifted the telephone to his ear. “No, Herb,” he said. “Five minutes
is too long. No—”

    Cassie stood up and put her hand on his arm. It was the ﬁrst time
she had actually reached out to touch Alex, instead of him touching
her. He turned to her, the telephone forgotten, his eyes locked onto her
own. “It’s okay,” she said quietly. “Tell him to come over. I’ll be ﬁne.
I don’t want to rest.”
    He murmured something into the telephone and she watched the
way his lips formed the words. She waited for him to hang up, but he
didn’t. He cupped his hand over the receiver again and moved closer,
until they were separated by the space of a breath.
    Cassie did not close her eyes as Alex kissed her. Her hand fell away
from his arm to hang at her side, and she tasted faint traces of coffee
and vanilla. When he pulled away, she was still leaning toward him,
her eyes wide and waiting for the ﬂood of memories she was certain
would come.
    But before that could happen, Alex gestured helplessly at the phone.
“I have to talk to him. I left Macbeth mid-scene, you know, to get you.
Poor Herb has to clean up the mess I made.” He ran his hand over her
hair. “Why don’t you poke around a little? I promise, no more than
ﬁve minutes.”
    As Alex turned away and started rattling questions into the telephone, Cassie moved downstairs to the middle level of the apartment.
She wondered if she should change her clothes before Herb arrived. She
wondered who Herb was.
    She started toward the master bedroom, where Alex had showed her,
earlier, a closet full of silks and rainbow cottons that belonged to her.
She reached the arched hallway Alex had pulled her through before.
This time, she stopped to look at the pictures that hung against the
stark white walls. There was one of Alex on the beach outside the
apartment, buried up to his chest in sand. Of Cassie herself, grinning,
her arm thrown casually around the shoulders of a skeleton. There was
a picture of a dog she did not recognize, and one of Alex on a rearing
horse. Finally came a photo of Cassie in bed, white sheets pulled just
up to her breasts, a lazy smile across her ﬂushed face.
    She thought of the pressure of Alex’s kiss. She tried to imagine his
hands tracing their way down her spine.
    She looked at the picture again, and she wondered if Alex had taken
it.

HERB SILVER WAS FIVE FEET TALL, BALD, WITH A HANDLEBAR MUStache and pointed ears that made Cassie think of a Munchkin. He met
Alex at the door of the apartment and shoved a greasy brown paper bag
into his arms. “So, I ﬁgure it’s lunch and what’s a goy like you going
to have in his kitchen?” His eyes darted behind Alex’s substantial
height, searching for Cassie, pushing Alex aside as he began to rummage
in the bag. “There’s pastrami on rye with sauerkraut for you, and three
knishes and for God’s sake, don’t eat all the forshpeis by yourself this
time. Ah!” He held out his arms to Cassie. “You were trying to give
me my third heart attack?”
   Herb Silver was Alex’s agent at CAA. He had moved to L.A. over
twenty years earlier, but he told everyone that even though you could
take Herb Silver out of Brooklyn, you couldn’t take Brooklyn out of
Herb Silver. Cassie reached out and hugged him, his head coming under
her chin.
   Herb kissed her on the mouth. He ran his hands lightly down her
arms as if he were checking for broken bones. “So, you’re ﬁne?”
   Cassie nodded, and Alex stepped forward, offering her half of a paper-
wrapped knish. “She’s perfect,” he said with a full mouth.
   Herb raised an eyebrow. “Does the girl have a voice of her own?”
   “I’m ﬁne,” Cassie said. “Really.” She looked from Alex to Herb and
then back at Alex again, silently thanking the little man for forcing his
entry this afternoon. With Herb added to the mix of her mind, Alex
couldn’t help but seem more familiar.
   Alex clapped an arm around Herb’s shoulders and led him upstairs
to the dining room. “Cassie—can you get the plates? All right, Herb,
tell me what Joe’s doing in Scotland.”
   Cassie wandered into the kitchen, grateful for something to do.
Somehow the ordinary things, like ﬁnding plates, or cooking, or watching the shower steam up the bathroom, made her feel at home. Alex
had seemed so much less threatening that morning when they were
doing things together—him pouring juice and her ﬁnding the ice,
standing side by side and chopping peppers for an omelette, picking
up a stack of papers the wind had scattered to the ﬂoor. There was an
intimacy to simple tasks, things everyone knew and everyone did, that
formed a ﬂoor of false comfort and security beneath even two strangers.
   Herb and Alex were talking in the dining room, a running river of
syllables she caught from time to time. Cassie looked from one cabinet

door to the next, wondering where the dishes were. She opened the door
closest to her. Tablecloths, and a breadbasket. The door beside it revealed wineglasses.
   “Joe’s ﬁlmed the six lousy scenes that don’t revolve around you—
the witches, and something or other with Banquo. He says Melanie did
a tour de force with the hand-washing bit.” Herb watched Cassie open
a third and fourth cabinet, bite her lip, and then check beneath the
sink. “What’s with her head?” he whispered to Alex. “She’s still a little
meshugge?”
   Alex shrugged. “The doctor told her it’s going to take some time for
her to remember who she is, and what the hell knocked her out.” His
eyes followed Cassie as she ﬁnally opened the cabinet that held the
dishes. “In the meantime, I ﬁgure I’ll just keep her near me. Safe.” He
grinned at his agent. “Shit. If I can’t bring back her memory, I don’t
know what can.”
   Cassie brought back three plates and a stack of paper napkins. She
hovered at the edge of the table, the outsider. “I could only ﬁnd wineglasses,” she said.
   Herb waved toward her chair. “Just sit. We can drink out of the
bottles.” He unwrapped a sandwich with a colossal amount of meat
jammed between the slices of bread, and Cassie watched his mouth
contort to seal around the bulk of it. “I hope you’ve thanked your lovely
wife, Alex, for the free PR.” Herb pinched Cassie’s cheek. “Nationwide
coverage of the heartbroken Alex Rivers shielding his wife is exactly the
kind of pre-Oscar coverage we need.” He held his sandwich inches from
his mouth. “It can’t hurt all your buddies at AMPAS to see you being
a family man before they cast their Best Actor and Best Director votes.
You know, I’m going to call Michaela this afternoon and see if we can’t
milk this on Oprah. You can plug Taboo, maybe we can get Cassie on
for the last ﬁve minutes—”
   “No.” At that last word, Cassie jumped. Alex hadn’t spoken particularly loudly, but he’d slammed his ﬁst on the table so forcefully that
he had cracked one of the hand-painted tiles that made up its surface.
Cassie watched a tiny line of blood trickle down Alex’s wrist, but he
did not bother to wipe it away. His eyes narrowed, and he leaned across
the table toward Herb, upsetting a bottle of soda. “You will not exploit
my wife on television to stack my odds for the Oscars.”

   Herb blotted his mouth with a napkin, as if he were used to this
kind of outburst every day. “Okay, okay,” he said.
   Stunned, Cassie sat motionless, watching the clear stream of Sprite
puddle onto the carpet. She looked up at Alex. “I don’t mind,” she said.
“If you think it will help you—”
   “I said no,” Alex bellowed. His ﬁngers, clenched white around the
edge of the table, suddenly relaxed. “Cassie,” he said more softly. “The
soda.”
   Cassie pushed back her chair and ﬂew into the kitchen. A dishcloth.
She spun around, intuitively opening the cabinet that housed a stack
of simple folded cloths. She efﬁciently mopped up the tiles on the table
and then, kneeling between Herb and Alex, she pressed the cloth to
the carpet. She scrubbed for a full minute. In fact, she was so intent on
cleaning the mess, she didn’t notice the breaking weight of the silence
that settled on her shoulders, forcing her to bow her head, preventing
her from looking up at Alex.
   “There,” Cassie said to herself, breathless. She rocked back to her
heels.
   Alex pulled her up to sit on his lap. “Sorry, Herb,” he said sheepishly.
“You know how I get about her.”
   “Who wouldn’t?” Herb picked up the second half of his sandwich
and began methodically sifting through the corned beef, eliminating
every other slice. “Goddamn cholesterol.”
   Cassie watched him pile the meat on the side of his plate. She shifted
uncomfortably, feeling Alex’s thighs beneath hers. She realized she was
shaking, and almost as quickly, Alex banded his arms around her.
“Cold?” he whispered against the curve of her ear, and before she could
answer, he tightened his embrace.
   “I’m going to ﬂy back to Scotland on Friday,” he said. “I’m taking
Cassie with me.”
   “You are?” Cassie said, turning in his arms to stare at him.
   Herb nodded. “UCLA’s giving her a sabbatical?”
   UCLA? Cassie struggled off Alex’s lap. “What does UCLA have to
do with it?”
   Herb smiled indulgently. “Alex probably didn’t get around to telling
you yet. You teach there.”
   “I thought I was an anthropologist.”
   “You are,” Alex said. “You teach anthropology there.” He grinned

at her. “Let me see if I’ve got it right this semester—you’re teaching
Archaeological Field Training, The Australopithecines, and you’re
heading a tutorial for Golden’s course on biology, society, and culture.”
   Cassie rounded on him, furious, her anger eating away at the distance
between them and making her forget her quiet role as an observer. How
could he have neglected to mention this? She’d told him about the hand
she’d found in the library the day before, the ﬁrst clue to her identity.
And at the police station, when he’d conﬁrmed her profession, she’d
practically crowed. For someone so concerned with his own career, Alex
should have understood. “Why didn’t you tell me this before? I’ve got
to call someone there. I might have missed a class. They might have
seen the paper—”
   “Cassie,” Alex said, “calm down. I had Jennifer call to let them know
you’re all right and to tell them you’d be taking off sick for a couple
of weeks.”
   “And who the hell is Jennifer?” Cassie yelled.
   “My assistant,” Alex said. His voice, low and soothing, ran over her
shoulders and her back. He came to stand in front of her, grasping her
upper arms and forcing her to look into his eyes. “Take it easy,” he said.
“I only want you to get better.”
   “I’m ﬁne,” Cassie exploded. “I’m perfectly ﬁne. I may not be able to
remember who I am, Alex, but that doesn’t make me an invalid. I’d
probably remember a lot more if you weren’t so intent on making all
my decisions for me and—” Suddenly, her words dropped off. Alex’s
voice had been soft as rain, and his arms were offered for comfort, but
his ﬁngers bit into her skin. Cassie looked down to a spot where a small
smear of blood from the side of his injured hand had marked her shirt.
   He was staring at her so intently he didn’t even know he was hurting
her. Cassie felt her cheeks burn. She was accusing him, although she
only knew half the facts. She had yelled at him, when all he’d done was
try to help. She turned away from Alex, mortiﬁed that she had screamed
like a banshee in front of him, in front of his agent. What had she been
thinking? Of course she’d go to Scotland. She had the rest of her life
to teach at UCLA.
   Alex brushed her hair back from her forehead. He seemed to be
waiting for her to come to her senses. “I’m sorry,” Cassie murmured. “I
just wish you’d said something.” She pulled away from him, letting
that uneasy shadow fall back into place between them. She smiled

through her embarrassment at Herb, then walked onto the patio that
led to the beach.
   “Whew,” Herb said, standing and stretching his arms overhead. “I
don’t think I’ve ever seen Cassie act like that.”
   Alex watched his wife walk over the bright sand, the wind covering
her footsteps almost as quickly as she made them. He saw her pick up
a stone and throw it as far as she could, aiming to shatter the sun. “No,”
he said quietly. “Neither have I.”

IT WAS THE SUMMER OF 1975 AND SHE AND CONNOR LAY ON THEIR
backs on the ﬂoating dock, rubbing their toes against the rough wood,
challenging each other to see who could stare longest at the burning
sun. “You’re cheating,” she said. “I can see you squinting when you
think I’m not looking.”
    “Am not,” Connor said indignantly. “You just can’t think of any
other way to win.”
    She was twelve and she was with her best friend, and it was one of
those absolutely perfect days on Moosehead Lake, one that moved so
slowly you were sure you were stuck in a photograph until, wham, just
like that, it was over too soon. “God,” she said. “I’m totally blind.”
    “Me too,” said Connor. “All I see is black.”
    “Truce?”
    “Truce.” Cassie sat up, groping along the dock past her ﬁshing pole
and Connor’s to ﬁnd the skinny bones of his wrist. She pulled until she
knew he was sitting up too.
    She had known Connor for as long as she could remember. He lived
next door and his father worked at the bait and tackle shop in town.
They had stolen still-hot elephant-ear cookies from her parents’ bakery;
they had been in the same class since second grade; they had learned to
sail together on a battered old Sunﬁsh bought with their pooled paper
route money. They had both forsworn marriage, each thinking that with
the exception of the other, the opposite sex was a miserable lot; they
talked constantly of running away to the Canadian border, just to see
if they could actually do it. Their parents said they were each other’s
ﬂip side, inseparable, two halves of a whole. Cassie liked that idea a lot.
It made her think of a picture in their biology textbook of a hermit
crab that lived with a sea anemone on its back. The sea anemone, carried
by the crab, had a better chance of ﬁnding food, and the crab was better

protected by the sea anemone’s sting and camouﬂage. Separate, they
had to take their chances. Together, they had a whole new chance at
survival.
    Connor jumped to his feet. “Want to ﬁsh?”
    “Again?” said Cassie. “No.”
    “Want to race back?” He gestured toward the sliver of shore.
    “What about our poles?”
    Connor dropped to a crouch. “I could teach you to do a backward
dive.”
    For a second Cassie’s eyes gleamed—Connor could do anything when
it came to diving. He’d tried to show her once or twice, but she hadn’t
been a very good student. Still, a back dive.
    “Okay,” she said. “What do I do?”
    Connor positioned her beside him on the ﬂoating dock so that they
stood with their backs to the water, their toes balanced right on the
edge. Then he bent at the knees and executed a perfect dive, slicing the
water with his hands before his body followed like the silver slip of a
knife. He surfaced beside the dock and wiped mucus from his nose.
“You do it.”
    Cassie sucked in her breath. She bent a little, hopped, and slipped
on the wet dock. The only thing she remembered for a long while after
that was the horrible sound her skull made as it cracked against something hard and unforgiving.
    Connor was already in the water when she blacked out, and he slung
an arm across her chest and scissor-kicked his way back to the shore.
He dragged her across the sand, Cassie’s heels cutting dark wet furrows
in their wake.
    When her eyes blinked open, something was blocking her view of
the sun, something black and looming. Cassie. She rubbed her hand
against the back of her head.
    Connor was staring at her as if she’d come back from the dead, instead
of just passed out for a minute or two. “You okay?” he said. “You know
who I am?”
    Cassie snorted; she couldn’t help it. As if she could ever forget Connor. “Yeah,” she said. “You’re my other half.”
    Connor stared down at her, his face so white she knew she had given
him a good scare. For a moment neither of them said a word. Connor
found his voice ﬁrst. “Come on,” he said. “Let’s get some ice for you.”

   They swung open the screen door of Cassie’s house, leaving damp
footprints and a shadow of sand on their way into the kitchen. “It would
have been a perfect dive,” Cassie tossed over her shoulder. “Next time,
I think—” She stopped at the doorway so abruptly Connor slammed
against her back, and unconsciously, she leaned toward him. Her
mother was slumped across the kitchen ﬂoor, soaked in a pile of her
own vomit.
   Setting her lips in a tight line, Cassie knelt beside her mother with
a wet dishrag, wiping her cheek and her mouth and the collar of her
shirt. From the corner of her eye, she saw Connor silently retrieve the
bottle of gin that had rolled underneath the radiator. Her mother was
supposed to be at the bakery, since it was only three o’clock. There must
have been another ﬁght. Which meant she didn’t know when, or
whether, to expect her father home.
   “Ma?” Cassie whispered. “Ma, come on. Get up.” She looped her
mother’s arm around her neck and hefted the dead weight in a dragging
ﬁreman’s carry. With Connor watching from the doorway, she draped
her mother across the living room couch and covered her with a light
quilt.
   “Cass?” Her mother’s voice was soft and breathy, a dead ringer for
Marilyn Monroe’s. She reached blindly to ﬁnd her daughter’s hand. “My
good girl.”
   Cassie tucked her mother’s hand under the quilt and wandered back
into the kitchen, wondering what she could scrounge up for dinner. If
she had a meal set when—if—her father got home, then he wouldn’t
get angry, and if he didn’t get angry her mother would be less likely
to drink herself out cold again. She could make everything okay.
   Connor stood in the kitchen packing ice into a plastic baggie. “Get
over here,” he said. “The last thing you need is for your head to swell
some more.”
   She sat down on a chair and let Connor hold the pack to the curve
of her neck. It wasn’t like Connor hadn’t seen this before—he knew
everything about her—but even the ﬁrst time, he had just offered his
help and kept quiet. He hadn’t looked at her with those moon eyes that
she knew meant pity.
   Ice water ran down the hollow between Cassie’s shoulder blades, and
in spite of Connor’s ﬁrst aid, a headache was beginning to kick through
her. She stared out the window at the ﬂoating dock, which looked so
far away she could hardly believe she had been there minutes before.
Cassie sighed. The problem with absolutely perfect summer days was
that they were bright bull’s-eye targets for something to go outright
wrong.

SHE WOKE UP TO THE COOL STING OF ALOE BEING RUBBED ALONG
her calves. “You’re going to pay for this later,” Alex said. “You’re so
red it hurts me to look at you.”
    Cassie jerked her leg away and tried to roll over, feeling uncomfortable with the intimate slip of Alex’s palms over her own skin. She
winced at the pain when she tried to bend her knee. “I didn’t mean to
fall asleep.”
    Alex glanced at his watch. “I didn’t mean to let you sleep for six
hours, either,” he said. “After Herb left, I sort of got tied up on the
phone.”
    Cassie sat up and shifted degrees away from Alex. She watched the
sun cut a ribbon across the ocean. An older woman came strolling down
the beach with two weimaraners. “Alex!” she called, waving. “Cassie!
Are you feeling all right?”
    Alex smiled at her. “She’s ﬁne,” he yelled. “Have a nice walk, Ella.”
    “Ella?” Cassie murmured. “Ella Whittaker?” Her eyes widened, trying to catch a glimpse of the statuesque woman who, ﬁfty years back,
had been a pinup girl and a screen legend. “The Ella Whittaker who
starred in—”
    “The Ella Whittaker who lives two doors down,” Alex said, grinning.
“God, you’ve got to get your memory back soon, or you’re going to
scour the Colony asking for autographs.”
    For several minutes he did not speak, and Cassie could feel the quiet
settle around them. She wanted to say something to Alex, anything,
but she didn’t know what sorts of things they talked about.
    As she turned toward the violet line of the horizon, Alex’s voice
curled over her, light as silk. “I was going to tell you about UCLA.
God, I never would have met you if you weren’t working there, so I owe
them a lot. I really didn’t do it deliberately. I just forgot.” He reached
for her hand and brought it to his lips. His eyes were the sloe-black of
smoke. “Forgive me?”
    He’s acting. The thought rushed through Cassie’s mind so violently
she pulled her hand free and turned away, shaking. How do I know when
he’s acting?
    “Cassie?”
    She blinked at him, held in his gaze, and by bits and degrees she
softened. She couldn’t think about UCLA, about who was wrong and
who was right, not just now. He was hypnotizing her; she knew this
as well as she knew that she had been made for him, as well as she knew
that any doubts she had about Alex would mirror her own faulty judgment.
    Cassie began to hear and feel the unexpected: a tangle of sweet Mexican violins, a wet wind from an everglade, the song of one hundred
hearts beating. She thought to run, some instinct telling her this was
the beginning of the end, but she could no sooner move than turn back
time. The world as she knew it was falling away, and the only place
left for her to go was toward Alex.
    “Forgive me?” he repeated.
    Cassie heard the sound of her own voice, heard the words she couldn’t
remember thinking. “Of course,” she said. “Don’t I always?”
    A wave rolled over Cassie’s ankles, frigid and authentic. The magic
broke, and then it was just the two of them, she and Alex, and that was
starting to seem all right. “I came prepared with a bribe,” Alex said. “I
made it myself.” He was smiling at her, and she smiled back hesitantly,
thinking, He understands. He knows he has me in the palm of his hand. He
pulled up the front of his shirt to reveal a neatly wrapped square package
tucked into the waist of his jeans. “Here.”
    Cassie reached for the tinfoil, trying not to look at the smooth, sculptured muscles of his chest. She unwrapped it. “You made me Rice
Krispies Marshmallow Treats? Are they my favorite?”
    “No,” Alex laughed. “In fact, you hate marshmallows, but it’s the
only thing I know how to cook and I thought for sure you’d remember
that and take pity on me.” He tugged it out of her hand and took a
bite. “I grew up on these,” he said, his mouth full.
    Cassie turned to him, her eyes gleaming. “Alex,” she said. “Where
did I grow up?” Maine. She knew even before he spoke the word what
the answer would be. “And who was Connor?”
    Alex’s eyes widened, so she could see the ring of gold around the

edge of his irises. “Your best friend. How do you—did you remember
all this?”
   She grinned, excited. “I was dreaming the whole time I was asleep,”
she said. “I remembered a lot of things. Moosehead Lake, and Connor,
and . . . and my mother. Do we ever go there? Do I talk to my parents
a lot?”
   Alex swallowed. “Your mom’s dead, and, well, when I ﬁrst met you,
you told me the reason you went to college in California was to get as
far away from Maine as you possibly could.”
   Cassie nodded, as if she had expected this. She wondered how much
Alex knew about her parents. She wondered if she’d ever been brave
enough to tell him. “Where are your parents?”
   Alex rolled away from her, turning to face the ocean. She watched
his proﬁle set, and she had a sudden memory—this was the way he
looked minutes before he ﬁlmed a scene, when his own personality
drained away and was replaced by the character he was playing. “They’re
in New Orleans,” Alex said. “We don’t see much of them, either.” He
rubbed his palm against the back of his neck and closed his eyes. Cassie
wondered what he was seeing, what made him curl into himself. To
her surprise, a sharp ache stung her chest, and she knew right away she
had felt it so that he wouldn’t have to. When Alex looked up at her,
old ghosts still shifted in his eyes. “You really don’t remember me, do
you?” he said quietly.
   He was inches away but she could feel the line of heat between them
as if they were touching. Cassie put her arms around him, shivering as
she took in more of his pain. “No,” she said. “I don’t.”

THEY MADE POPCORN IN THE MICROWAVE FOR DINNER AND
watched a Monty Python rerun on TV. They played War with a deck
of cards they found buried in the broom closet. With a pillowcase
draped on his head for a wimple, Alex performed Lady Macbeth’s “Out,
damned spot!” speech, curtsying low when Cassie laughed and clapped.
Her eyes were shining when he jumped down from the cleared coffee
table he’d used as a stage. She did not know Alex, but she liked him.
Surely that was more than most marriages survived on.
   Alex pulled her to her feet. “Tired?”
   Cassie nodded, letting him slip his arm around her waist. As they

walked down the stairs to the bedroom, she wondered what the sleeping
arrangements would be. They were married, so he could sleep anywhere
he pleased; but she’d really only had one day to get reacquainted with
him, and she supposed he might chivalrously offer to stay in a guest
bedroom for the night. She wondered if she wanted him to.
   At the door to the master bedroom, Alex stopped walking. Cassie
stepped away from him, her arms pressed to her sides. She could not
bring herself to look at Alex, whose questions, even in the silence,
seemed to ﬁll the hallway.
   He tipped her chin up and kissed her gently. “Good night,” he said,
and then he turned toward a guest room a few doors down.
   Cassie watched him for a moment, then walked into the bedroom
and closed the door. She pulled her shirt over her head and stepped out
of her shorts, tossing them on the four-poster bed en route to the bathroom. Stripping off her underwear, she stood in front of the mirrors
that lined an entire wall beside the sink. She cupped her hands over her
breasts and frowned at the small swell of her stomach. She couldn’t
imagine what had attracted Alex Rivers.
   She picked up the bottles and jars that dotted the countertop—facial
creams and exfoliating scrubs and clear astringents that seemed to belong in equal proportion to Alex and herself. She had already brushed
her hair and washed her face when she realized there was no toothpaste.
There were two toothbrushes—one green, one blue—and she didn’t
know which one was hers, either.
   She checked in the cabinets that were recessed into the walls, but all
she could ﬁnd were pale peach towels and two thick terry cloth bathrobes. She wrapped one around herself, rubbing her hands down the
heavy brushed cotton. Maybe Alex had toothpaste in his bathroom, and
surely he’d want his toothbrush.
   She didn’t know which room he had gone into, and she was about
to knock on random doors when she heard him speaking a little farther
down the hall. “Life’s but a walking shadow.” The door was ajar, and
in the reﬂection of the bathroom mirror she saw Alex standing over the
sink, his eyes hollow. “A poor player that struts and frets his hour upon
the stage,” he murmured, his voice no louder than a whisper. “And then
is heard no more.”
   Stunned, Cassie clutched the toothbrushes in her hand and leaned
against the doorframe to see a little better. This was not Alex. He had

transformed himself into a man beaten, a man who saw his life for what
it would become—a ﬂash in someone else’s memory, then something
forgotten.
   Cassie fought back the urge to push the door open and wrap her own
hope tight around him. She did not know this new stranger, she knew
him even less than she knew Alex, but she understood that she had
come to help.
   She thought about what Alex had said at the police station, the terror
in his voice: You don’t know what it was like to lose you. And she began
to see that the famous Alex Rivers came undone just as easily as the
next person.
   Cassie took one step forward and Alex opened his eyes, seeing her
reﬂection. He was Alex again, and smiling, but in the darker gradients
of his eyes she could see the terror and the numbness of Macbeth. She
wondered if he had always been like that, if every character became a
tiny part of him. She knew that actors, in some part, had to draw and
embellish on their own experience, and the thought of so much despair
buried somewhere in Alex wrenched her. “Where do you get it? All
that pain?”
   He stared at her, shaken by her second sight. “From myself.”
   She moved ﬁrst, or maybe he did, but then he was holding her and
opening the tie of the robe, running his hands up and down her sides.
The toothbrushes fell to the ﬂoor and Cassie wound her ﬁngers in his
hair, burying her face in the hollow of his shoulder. She inched her
hands down his back as if she were feeding a seam, bunching the fabric
of his shirt until her hands burned the skin at his waist.
   He kissed hungrily, bumping them against walls and doorframes as
he pushed his way back toward the master bedroom. Cassie fell against
the bed, and he pulled apart the sides of her heavy robe, pinning her
arms while the moon danced over her skin. His tongue traced the bend
of her jaw, the curves below her breasts, the white lines of her thighs.
   Cassie opened her eyes, dazed by the image of his body over hers.
Alex pressed his lips to her stomach. “Beautiful,” he said.
   He’s acting.
   As it had earlier that day, the thought came out of nowhere, and
when it took root in her mind she began to struggle. But Alex’s weight
was on her, pressing. He cradled her face in his hands and kissed her
so honestly she thought she would shatter. And then she remembered

the spell he had woven between them that afternoon; the emptiness
that had opened like a raw wound in her own stomach when she heard
him speak as Macbeth.
   The moment they came together, Cassie understood why they belonged to each other. He ﬁlled her, and she took away his scars. Cassie
wrapped her arms around Alex’s neck, surprised by the tears that leaked
from the edges of her eyes. She turned her face to the open window,
breathing in the sweet mix of herself and Alex and endless ocean.
   She was drifting off to sleep when Alex’s voice slipped over her. “You
don’t have to get your memory back, Cass. I know who you are.”
   “Oh?” she said, smiling. She drew Alex’s arm around her. “Who
am I?”
   She felt Alex’s peace curl against her like a benediction. He pulled
her back against his front, into the place where she just ﬁt. “You’re my
other half,” he said.